Pvr/agent logs collection default http (#7136)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/logs/log-transport.md

---
title: Agent Transport for logs
kind: documentation
description: Use the Datadog Agent to collect your logs and send them to Datadog
further_reading:
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#filter-logs"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Filter logs sent to Datadog"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#scrub-sensitive-data-from-your-logs"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Scrub sensitive data from your logs"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#multi-line-aggregation"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Multi-line log aggregation"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#tail-directories-by-using-wildcards"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Tail directories by using wildcards"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#global-processing-rules"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Global processing rules"
---

## Default agent behavior

For Agent v6.19+/v7.19+, the default transport used for your logs is compressed HTTPS instead of TCP for the previous versions.

> When the Agent starts, if log collection is enabled, it runs a HTTPS connectivity test. If successful, then the Agent uses the compressed HTTPS transport, otherwise the Agent fallbacks to a TCP transport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Agent starts, if log collection is enabled, it runs a HTTPS connectivity test. If successful, then the Agent uses the compressed HTTPS transport, otherwise the Agent falls back to a TCP transport.
```

---
title: Agent Transport for logs
kind: documentation
description: Use the Datadog Agent to collect your logs and send them to Datadog
further_reading:
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#filter-logs"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Filter logs sent to Datadog"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#scrub-sensitive-data-from-your-logs"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Scrub sensitive data from your logs"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#multi-line-aggregation"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Multi-line log aggregation"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#tail-directories-by-using-wildcards"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Tail directories by using wildcards"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#global-processing-rules"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Global processing rules"
---

## Default agent behavior

Since Agent v6.19+/v7.19+, the default transport is HTTPS with compression instead of TCP.

> At agent start, if log collection is enabled, the agent will run a HTTPS connectivity test:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At agent start, if log collection is enabled, the agent runs a HTTPS connectivity test:
```

> * if successfull, then the agent will use HTTPS transport

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* if successful, then the agent uses HTTPS transport
```

Reviewer 2: Is compression enabled as well?

Author: yes

> * otherwise the agent will fall back to TCP transport

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* otherwise the agent fallbacks to TCP transport
```

> This connectivity test mechanism is only running at agent startup. If the connectivity is failing for both HTTPS and TCP at agent startup time, then the agent will use TCP transport until its next restart (and then rerun a new Connectivity test)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This connectivity test mechanism is only running at Agent startup. If the connectivity is failing for both HTTPS and TCP at Agent startup time, then the agent uses TCP transport until its next restart (and then rerun a new connectivity test)
```

> To check which transport is used by the agent, run the [agent statuts command][1].

Reviewer 2: Let's put a screenshot of what it can look like

Author: added

For older version of the agent, TCP is used by default. We strongly recommend you to enforce HTTP transport with compression if you are running v6.14+/v7.14+.

## Enforce a specific transport

> The default agent behavior can be overwritten through configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enforce the use of TCP or HTTPS transport by using the following configurations.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "HTTP" %}}

To enforce HTTP transport, update the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:

```yaml
logs_enabled: true
logs_config:
  use_http: true
```

To send logs with environment variables, configure the following:

* `DD_LOGS_ENABLED`
* `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_USE_HTTP`

> Note: HTTPS transport is supported with data agent version 6.14+/7.14+

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: HTTPS transport is supported with Datadog Agent version 6.14+/7.14+
```

[1]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "TCP" %}}

To enforce TCP transport, update the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:

```yaml
logs_enabled: true
logs_config:
  use_tcp: true
```
To send logs with environment variables, configure the following:

* `DD_LOGS_ENABLED`
* `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_USE_TCP`

> By default, the Datadog Agent sends its logs to Datadog over TLS-encrypted TCP. This requires outbound communication over port `10516`.

Reviewer 2: Only true for US region, for EU it is on port 443 (even for tcp)

Author: fixed

The `compression_level` parameter (or `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_COMPRESSION_LEVEL`) accepts values from `0` (no compression) to `9` (maximum compression but higher resource usage). The default value is `6`.

See the [Datadog Agent overhead section][2] for more information about Agent resource usage when compression is enabled.

For agent version before 6.19 / 7.19, you need to enforce compression updating the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:

```yaml
logs_enabled: true
logs_config:
  use_http: true
  use_compression: true
  compression_level: 6
```

### Configure the batch wait time

The Agent waits up to 5 seconds to fill each batch (either in content size or number of logs). Therefore, in the worst case scenario (when very few logs are generated) switching to HTTPS might add a 5-second latency compared to TCP, which sends all logs in real time.

To change the maximum time the Datadog Agent waits to fill each batch, add the following in the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`):

```yaml
logs_config:
  batch_wait: 2
```

Or use the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_BATCH_WAIT` environment variable.
The unit is seconds and must be an integer between `1` and `10`.

> ### HTTPS Proxy configuration

Reviewer 2: So we should likely put a "proxy" section and have a tab HTTPS and TCP and redirect to the main proxy pages (see other PR to clarify TCP vs HTTPs proxy parameter for logs

Author: can this be done in another PR?

Reviewer 2: For sure

---
title: Agent Transport for logs
kind: documentation
description: Use the Datadog Agent to collect your logs and send them to Datadog
further_reading:
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#filter-logs"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Filter logs sent to Datadog"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#scrub-sensitive-data-from-your-logs"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Scrub sensitive data from your logs"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#multi-line-aggregation"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Multi-line log aggregation"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#tail-directories-by-using-wildcards"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Tail directories by using wildcards"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#global-processing-rules"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Global processing rules"
---

> ## Default agent behavior

Reviewer 3: I think we should drop the Proxy note here (enforce TCP).
In addition, should we mention here that any config already set will be respected (when use_http=true/false is explicitly set)

Reviewer 2: This is part of the enforce transport section so I believe it is fine to leave it that way.

I would not mix proxy information right at the beginning. Let's keep the proxy part separate.

Author: by proxy note you mean "HTTPS Proxy configuration" section or the "Sock5" note?

Author: If it's socks5, it's done,!

Author: lol just saw Nil's comment, moving back Socks5 ... :D

Since Agent v6.19+/v7.19+, the default transport is HTTPS with compression instead of TCP.
At agent start, if log collection is enabled, the agent will run a HTTPS connectivity test:

* if successfull, then the agent will use HTTPS transport
* otherwise the agent will fall back to TCP transport

> This connectivity test mechanism is only running at agent startup. If the connectivity is failing for both HTTPS and TCP at agent startup time, then the agent will use TCP transport until restart it (and then rerun a new Connectivity test)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This connectivity test mechanism is only running at agent startup. If the connectivity is failing for both HTTPS and TCP at agent startup time, then the agent will use TCP transport until its next restart (and then rerun a new Connectivity test)
```

> To check which transport is used by the agent, run the [agent stauts command][1].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To check which transport is used by the agent, run the [agent status command][1].
```

> For older version of the agent, TCP is used by default but we strongly recommand you to enforce HTTP transport with compression is you are running v6.14+/v7.14+.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For older version of the agent, TCP is used by default. We strongly recommend you to enforce HTTP transport with compression if you are running v6.14+/v7.14+.
```

## Enforce a specific transport

> The default agent behavior can overwritten by enforcing a specific transport.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default agent behavior can be overwritten through configuration.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "HTTP" %}}

To enforce HTTP transport, update the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:

```yaml
logs_enabled: true
logs_config:
  use_http: true
```

To send logs with environment variables, configure the following:

* `DD_LOGS_ENABLED`
* `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_USE_HTTP`

Note: HTTPS transport is supported with data agent version 6.14+/7.14+

[1]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "TCP" %}}

To enforce TCP transport, update the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:

```yaml
logs_enabled: true
logs_config:
  use_tcp: true
```
To send logs with environment variables, configure the following:

* `DD_LOGS_ENABLED`
* `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_USE_TCP`

By default, the Datadog Agent sends its logs to Datadog over TLS-encrypted TCP. This requires outbound communication over port `10516`.

[1]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> Note: Setting up a [SOCKS5 proxy][4] server will also enforce TCP transport because socks5 proxies are not yet supported in HTTPS with compression.

Reviewer 3: As said above, I'd put that in the default agent behavior

Reviewer 2: It is indeed a bit hidden there.

I would actually keep it there but raise it again on the proxy page so that users that leverage the socks5 proxy parameter know that they enforce the TCP transport.

## HTTPS Transport

> **HTTPS log forwarding is the recommended configuration** because a 200 response is returned only if the logs have been written in the Datadog storage:

Reviewer 3: I don't have a great suggestion here but I'd rewrite that to justify why HTTP is better than TCP ?
```suggestion
**HTTPS log forwarding is the recommended configuration**. With HTTPS, you have a guarantee that Datadog has received your log.
```

{{< img src="agent/HTTPS_intake_reliability_schema.png" alt="HTTPS Intake Schema"  style="width:80%;">}}

> The Agent sends HTTPS batches with the following limits:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With/Using HTTP, the Agent sends log batches with the following limits:
```

> * Maximum content size per payload: 1MB

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Maximum batch size: 1MB
```

* Maximum size for a single log: 256kB

> * Maximum array size if sending multiple logs in an array: 200 entries logs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Maximum number of logs in a batch: 200
```

---
title: Agent Transport for logs
kind: documentation
description: Use the Datadog Agent to collect your logs and send them to Datadog
further_reading:
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#filter-logs"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Filter logs sent to Datadog"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#scrub-sensitive-data-from-your-logs"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Scrub sensitive data from your logs"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#multi-line-aggregation"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Multi-line log aggregation"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#tail-directories-by-using-wildcards"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Tail directories by using wildcards"
- link: "agent/logs/advanced_log_collection/#global-processing-rules"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Global processing rules"
---

## Default agent behavior

> Since Agent v6.19+/v7.19+, the default transport is HTTPS with compression instead of TCP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Agent v6.19+/v7.19+, the default transport used for your logs is compressed HTTPS instead of TCP for the previous versions.
```

> At agent start, if log collection is enabled, the agent runs a HTTPS connectivity test:
> 
> * if successful, then the agent uses compressed HTTPS transport
> * otherwise the agent fallbacks to TCP transport

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Agent starts, if log collection is enabled, it runs a HTTPS connectivity test. If successful, then the Agent uses the compressed HTTPS transport, otherwise the Agent fallbacks to a TCP transport.
```

> This connectivity test mechanism is only running at Agent startup. If the connectivity is failing for both HTTPS and TCP at Agent startup time, then the Agent uses TCP transport until its next restart (and then rerun a new connectivity test)

Reviewer: So if we fail TCP test we use TCP test ? 🤔 
```suggestion
This connectivity test mechanism is only performed when the Agent starts. If it is fails for both HTTPS and TCP, then the Agent uses TCP transport until its next restart (and then rerun a new connectivity test).
```

Author: yes... this wording might be a bit confusion... the "connectivity test" only test HTTPS. which means that if there is no connectivity at all (both TCP and HTTP) the agent will use TCP once the connectivity will be back.
I'll rephrase that.

Author: updated, tell me what you think!

> To check which transport is used by the agent, run the [agent statuts command][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check which transport is used by the Agent, run the [Agent statuts command][1].
```

{{< img src="agent/logs/agent-status.png" alt="Agent status"  style="width:70%;">}}

> For older version of the agent, TCP is used by default. We strongly recommend you to enforce HTTPS transport if you are running v6.14+/v7.14+ and HTTPS transport and compression if you are running v6.16+/v7.16+. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: For older Agent versions, TCP transport is used by default. Datadog strongly recommends you to enforce HTTPS transport if you are running v6.14+/v7.14+ and HTTPS compression if you are running v6.16+/v7.16+. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Enforce a specific transport

Enforce the use of TCP or HTTPS transport by using the following configurations.

{{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab "HTTP" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "HTTPS" %}}
```

> To enforce HTTP transport, update the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:

Reviewer: you should 
```suggestion
To enforce HTTPS transport with Agent versions v6.14+/v7.14+ , update the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:
```

```yaml
logs_enabled: true
logs_config:
  use_http: true
```

To send logs with environment variables, configure the following:

> * `DD_LOGS_ENABLED`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `DD_LOGS_ENABLED=true`
```

> * `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_USE_HTTP`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_USE_HTTP=true`
```

> Note: HTTPS transport is supported on Datadog Agent version 6.14+/7.14+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[1]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "TCP" %}}

To enforce TCP transport, update the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:

```yaml
logs_enabled: true
logs_config:
  use_tcp: true
```
To send logs with environment variables, configure the following:

> * `DD_LOGS_ENABLED`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `DD_LOGS_ENABLED=true`
```

> * `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_USE_TCP`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_USE_TCP=true`
```

> By default, the Datadog Agent sends its logs to Datadog over TLS-encrypted TCP. This requires outbound communication (on port `10516` for US site and port `443`for EU site).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Datadog Agent sends its logs to Datadog over TLS-encrypted TCP. This requires outbound communication (on port `10516` for Datadog US site and port `443`for Datadog EU site).
```

[1]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> Note: Setting up a [SOCKS5 proxy][4] server will also enforce TCP transport because socks5 proxies are not yet supported in HTTPS with compression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Setting up a [SOCKS5 proxy][4] server enforces TCP transport because socks5 proxies are not yet supported in HTTPS with compression.
```

## HTTPS Transport

> **HTTPS log forwarding is the recommended configuration**. With HTTPS, you have a guarantee that Datadog has received your log.

Reviewer: Why wouldn't it be the case with TCP? I think we should not state this.

```suggestion
**HTTPS log forwarding is the recommended configuration** for the best log collection reliability as the`200` status code is returned by the Datadog storage system:
```

Author: @gaetan-deputier suggested the opposit change in commit: 2982f6d0cc3eb754aecf9e1ebbe875381504786d 

basicaly with TCP, you can only knows that the log has been received by the load Balancer not that it has been received by the Intake.

I have no strong opinion with the wording but i'll vote for the current one which use "guarantee" .

Reviewer: yup this is what my change suggests :)

{{< img src="agent/HTTPS_intake_reliability_schema.png" alt="HTTPS Intake Schema"  style="width:80%;">}}

Using HTTP, the Agent sends log batches with the following limits:

* Maximum batch size: 1MB
* Maximum size for a single log: 256kB
* Maximum number of logs in a batch: 200

### Log compression

The `compression_level` parameter (or `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_COMPRESSION_LEVEL`) accepts values from `0` (no compression) to `9` (maximum compression but higher resource usage). The default value is `6`.

See the [Datadog Agent overhead section][2] for more information about Agent resource usage when compression is enabled.

> For agent version before 6.19 / 7.19, you need to enforce compression updating the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Agent versions prior to 6.19 / 7.19, you need to enforce compression by updating the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`) with:
```

```yaml
logs_enabled: true
logs_config:
  use_http: true
  use_compression: true
  compression_level: 6
```

### Configure the batch wait time

> The Agent waits up to 5 seconds to fill each batch (either in content size or number of logs). Therefore, in the worst case scenario (when very few logs are generated) switching to HTTPS might add a 5-second latency compared to TCP, which sends all logs in real time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Agent waits up to 5 seconds to fill each batch (either in content size or number of logs). Therefore, in the worst case scenario (when very few logs are generated) switching to HTTPS might add a 5-second latency compared to the TCP transport which sends all logs in real time.
```

> To change the maximum time the Datadog Agent waits to fill each batch, add the following in the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the maximum time the Datadog Agent waits to fill each batch, add the following configuration in the Agent's [main configuration file][1] (`datadog.yaml`):
```

```yaml
logs_config:
  batch_wait: 2
```

> Or use the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_BATCH_WAIT` environment variable.
> The unit is seconds and must be an integer between `1` and `10`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or use the `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_BATCH_WAIT=2` environment variable. The unit is in seconds and must be an integer between `1` and `10`.
```
